Philipp's NMT chaper
"Similarly, Gu et al. (2016) augment the
word prediction step of the neural translation model to either translate a word or copy a source word.
They observe that the attention mechanism is mostly driven by semantics"

"Researchers in deep learning often do not hesitate to claim that intermediate states in neural
translation models encode semantics or meaning." page 80

Grahm's tutorial on NMT
Talking about why tree-structured networks are good - "The reason why this is intuitively useful is because each syntactic phrase
usually also corresponds to a coherent semantic unit" - page 46

Chunk-Based Bi-Scale Decoder for Neural Machine Translation:
they use chunking in decoding because -
"Intuitively, we think chunks are more specific in
semantics, thus could extract more specific source
context for translation"

Analogs of Linguistic Structure in Deep Representations:
they write the following -
"One of the distinguishing features of natural
language is compositionality: the existence of operations
like negation and coordination that can be
applied to utterances with predictable effects on
meaning. RNN models trained for natural language
processing tasks have been found to learn
representations that encode some of this compositional
structure—for example, sentence representations
for machine translation encode explicit features
for certain syntactic phenomena (Shi et al.,
2016) and represent some semantic relationships
translationally (Levy et al., 2014)." -- but I dont see how the citation from
Levy's . Linguistic regularities in sparse and explicit
word representations fits here.

Google’s Multilingual Neural Machine Translation System: Enabling Zero-Shot Translation:
"provide early
evidence of shared semantic representations (interlingua) between languages"
section 5.1 - small thing about evidence for interlingua

References on the use of semantic information in (non-neural) MT, including semantic roles, which can be relevant to one of the RTE tasks. 
Seng Yee Chan, Tou Hwee Ng, and David Chiang. 2007. Word Sense Disambiguation Improves Sta- tistical Machine Translation.
Ding Liu and Daniel Gildea. 2010.Features for Machine Translation.
Qin Gao and Stephan Vogel. 2011. Utilizing Target- Side Semantic Role Labels to Assist Hierarchical Phrase-based Machine Translation.
Dekai Wu, Pascale N Fung, Marine Carpuat, Chi-kiu Lo, Yongsheng Yang, and Zhaojun Wu. 2011. Lex- ical Semantics for Statistical Machine Translation.
Bevan Jones, Jacob Andreas, Daniel Bauer, Moritz Karl Hermann, and Kevin Knight. 2012. Semantics-Based Machine Translation with Hyper- edge Replacement Grammars.
Marzieh Bazrafshan and Daniel Gildea. 2013. Seman- tic Roles for String to Tree Machine Translation.
Marzieh Bazrafshan and Daniel Gildea. 2014. Com- paring Representations of Semantic Roles for String-To-Tree Decoding.


